---
title: "SourceHut's PeerTube bootstrap fund: first batch"
date: 2020-09-09
author: Drew DeVault
---

In May we announced our initiative to [fund video creators who wanted to get
started on PeerTube][original post]. [PeerTube][peertube] is a free software
project which creates a federated network of video sharing platforms, each of
which owned and operated by independent, small groups of creators or users or
both. This decentralized, democratized approach to video publishing, on an open
source platform, is compelling to us, and we wanted to help bootstrap it with
new content for users to enjoy on the platform.

[original post]: https://sourcehut.org/blog/2020-05-15-peertube-bootstrap-fund/
[peertube]: https://joinpeertube.org/en/

Today we're happy to announce that we've selected our first two video creators
to receive funding and equipment: Matthew Bryant and Tom Cooks. We've brought
these creators on board with our PeerTube instance at
[spacepub.space](https://spacepub.space), which aims to be a private instance
focused on video publishers. It's federated with [many other PeerTube
instances](https://joinpeertube.org/en/instances) which would be happy to have
your user account, from where you can subscribe to enjoy these videos &mdash; or
you can subscribe with each channel's RSS feed.

---

Let's introduce our first two creators:

Matthew is an FPGA (field programmable gate array) enthusiast who is making use
of the [manim](https://github.com/3b1b/manim) open-source framework for
educational video creation designed and made famous by YouTube channel
3blue1brown. Matthew's channel will become a great resource on learning about
FPGA's from the ground up to the expert level.

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups"
  src="https://spacepub.space/videos/embed/d3a1b58f-6560-47b6-b183-53dd572a6fde"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Subscribe to Matthew's channel ➔](https://spacepub.space/video-channels/mbryant_channel/videos)

Tom is a passionate cook who wants to use the platform to share videos teaching
viewers how to cook traditional meals with cheap and accessible ingredients.
Check out his first video on flatbread here:

<iframe
  width="560"
  height="315"
  sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups"
  src="https://spacepub.space/videos/embed/0656038d-7255-411b-beff-2d652e71d804"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen></iframe>

[Subscribe to Tom's channel ➔](https://spacepub.space/video-channels/tom_cooks/videos)

---

We're working with a third creator as well (or creators &mdash; it's a
two-person team), who should have their first video prepared in the foreseeable
future. We're planning to start accepting applications for the second batch of
creators soon; keep an eye on this blog for updates. Enjoy the videos, and
subscribe to these creators!
