---
title: Sourcehut Q2 2020 Financial report
date: 2020-07-17
author: Drew DeVault
---

In summary, SourceHut is financially healthy. Our revenue continues to grow and
we are profitable and becoming more so. We have also been able to re-invest some
of our profits into the broader free software and free culture community.

<small>
Disclaimer: this report is a summarized approximation of our financials, and is
not used for tax purposes.
</small>

## Revenue sources

Sourcehut receives revenue from paid user subscriptions. During Q1, we processed
1,855 invoices. The invoices paid break down as:

    930     $2  (paid monthly)
    433     $5  (paid monthly)
    148     $10 (paid monthly)
    246     $2  (paid yearly)
    74      $5  (paid yearly)
    24      $10 (paid yearly)

The total gross revenue during Q2 was $16,335, which after transaction fees is
$15,204. This is basically identical to the revenue from Q1, however, the
breakdown in revenue sources has changed. We saw growing subscriptions in almost
every category &mdash; except for $10/year, which shrunk by 30%. This was
unexpected, but we are not especially concerned, as it was made up for with
growth in other areas and is unlikely to indicate a long-term trend. In any
case, this is a 289% increase from Q2 2019, which *does* continue to support a
trend of strong YoY growth.

In Q2 2,551 users registered for an account, of which 302 have paid (11.8%).
This matches closely with our overall conversion rate of 11.7% (1,888 of 16,140
users at the time of writing). As of July 2020, the breakdown in subscription
levels is the following:


    342   $2  (paid monthly)
    156   $5  (paid monthly)
     53   $10 (paid monthly)
    916   $2  (paid yearly)
    307   $5  (paid yearly)
    114   $10 (paid yearly)

The monthly revenue from these subscriptions (with annual payments amortized) is
approximately $5,544 after transaction fees, an increase in $895 over Q1. This
is consistent with our historical rate of growth.

At the end of Q2, SourceHut had $17,383 in the bank.

## Expenses

Breakdown of Q2 expenses:

    $5000    Set aside for PeerTube initiative
    $1950    Philadelphia datacenter lease (inc. network, power, etc)
    â‚¬1000    Donation to Framasoft
    $1253    Misc. server equipment
    $600     LWN advertisement
    $300     GitHub sponsorship of pygit2
    $80      Domain name registrations and renewals

Our expenses were unusually high during this period, as we decided to re-invest
in the community in several respects. The [PeerTube bootstrap fund][0] is a
clear outlier, and we also donated to the PeerTube developers. Additionally,
we've set up a recurring donation with the maintainer of pygit2, an important
library that we depend on to provide git.sr.ht service. We may be interested in
sponsorships for other projects in our dependency tree; please reach out if you
are interested.

[0]: https://sourcehut.org/blog/2020-05-15-peertube-bootstrap-fund/

As an experiment, we also spent $600 on an LWN advertisement campaign during
this quarter. The following advertisement was shown on LWN.net:

![An advertisement which reads as follows: "sourcehut.org: git & hg repos, mailing lists, fast CI for Linux & BSD; no JavaScript required; 100% free software. Paid Advertisement"](https://l.sr.ht/E3-r.png)

We received 50,000 impressions and 113 click-throughs (0.22%). This is
considered fairly typical for this kind of advertisement. The results were not
strong enough to consider a second campaign for the time being; our other
marketing approaches are more effective.

In Q3, we plan on spending around $4K-$5K on the installation of a new server to
handle hg.sr.ht growth, as well as a fill few other roles, mainly for high
availability. Otherwise we have no unusual expenses planned.
