---
title: On the subject of ethics in our industry
date: 2021-01-13
author: Drew DeVault
---

I am disappointed by our peers in the industry in terms of their failure to
uphold a reasonable moral standard, and I am sorry that it is necessary for me
to write about it today. I would much prefer that we compete in terms of our
product's utility and our technological expertise, and it shames me that we must
also compete in terms of our respective levels of command over our moral
compasses.

I learned today of an incident at GitHub, one of our competitors.[^1] A Jewish
employee was fired in apparent retaliation for commenting "stay safe homies,
Nazis are about" in one of the company's Slack channels. This occurred during an
insurrection at the US Capitol by radical right-wing, racially-motivated
terrorists, at least some of whom were wearing Nazi propaganda, for the purpose
of uprooting the democratic process to instill a fascist demagogue. The
seditionist riot claimed the lives of at least six people.

[^1]: Source: [Business Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-github-backlash-jewish-employee-termination-2021-1) (alternate without paywall: [Gizmodo](https://gizmodo.com/github-fired-a-jewish-employee-for-warning-that-nazis-1846047140))

This news comes months after GitHub made the news for accepting contracts[^2]
with US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an organization which has
infamously committed large-scale human rights violations at the behest of that
same fascist demagogue, problems which were generally known at the time and
which were brought to GitHub's attention without effect. Around the same time,
another company in the same space, GitLab, loosened their internal policies[^3]
to make it easier for them to make similar agreements without regard to ethics,
stating that they will, quote, do business with "customers with values that are
incompatible with our own values."

[^2]: Source: [Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-10-10/microsoft-employees-call-to-end-github-ice-contract)
[^3]: Source: [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2019/10/16/gitlab_employees_gagged/)

This level of moral absenteeism within the industry SourceHut shares astonishes
me. I wish that there was no need for me to make the following explicit:

These are the official policies of SourceHut: we condemn white nationalism,
Donald Trump, and the supporters of both. We affirm that we value human rights,
the democratic process, and the judicial process. We assert the rights and value
of all people, of all nationalities, races, ethnicities, sexual preferences,
gender identities, disabilities, religions, and economic classes. We will
defend anyone who would speak up in support of these ideals. We will not do
business with anyone who does not recognize and embody these truths.

We think it's repugnant that our peers don't demonstrate the same values. We
think that you, the customer, should reward businesses that commit to upholding
these values with your patronage, and withhold it from those which will not.

Also, in case the employee that GitHub terminated is reading this: [feel free to
get in touch](mailto:sir@cmpwn.com) if you're still open to a job in the
industry. We'd be happy to talk to you.
