---
title: The European NGI fund must be renewed
author: Drew DeVault
date: 2024-07-18
---

In 2022, [SourceHut was selected][0] for funding from the European Union's NGI
fund. This fund has been used to provide small grants to many free software
projects since 2020, and the impact of these grants has been enormous. In
SourceHut's case, the grant is directly to thank for our comprehensive GraphQL
APIs, which both underpins SourceHut's internal communication needs and makes
this platform possible, and are depended on by our users to achieve our goals of
personal data ownership and platform independence.

[0]: /blog/2022-01-10-nlnet-graphql-funding/

Thanks to NGI funding, Europe has been the spearhead of innovation in free
software over the past four years. There are hundreds of free software projects
which can thank this fund for their success, projects which would not have been
possible without it -- and because of this fund, the technology they provide is
available in the commons, for the benefit of all. The NGI fund has enormously
strengthened Europe's technology stance and drawn the continent out as one of
the best, if not the best, places to innovate in free software and support
internet and technology resilience, security, sovereignty, and innovation. These
goals cannot be achieved any other way -- many of the projects that benefit from
NGI funding cannot reasonably find their way without a funding source like this.

Moreover, the fund has been shown to be an incredibly efficient way of spending
towards innovation. The NGI grants punch well above their weight. We have seen
NGI grants in the tens of thousands accomplish goals which the commercial sector
demands tens of millions in investments to achieve, and the NGI-funding outcomes
are placed into the commons and support the public interest -- something private
funding cannot do. I can think of no better example of efficient public spending
on innovation than the NGI fund: the returns on a small NGI investment are huge.

So, it was to our dismay to learn that the European Commission has not included
the NGI program in its Horizon Europe working draft for funding programs in
2025. SourceHut joins [an open letter][1] to the European Commission calling for
them to reconsider. If anything, it is not only important but urgent that the
commission expands the NGI program -- not shut it down. The NGI program is a
cornerstone of Europe's future in technology and innovation, and it embodies the
European commmunity's values in a way we must honor and uphold.

[1]: https://pad.public.cat/lettre-NCP-NGI#

We urge the commission to reconsider.

-- 
SourceHut
